Stealing Cookies and Session Information
We can use XSS to steal cookies
and session information
if the application uses an insecure
session management configuration.
If we can steal an authenticated
user’s cookie,
we could masquerade as that
user within the target web site.
Assuming JavaScript can
access the cookie value,
we can use it as part of a
link and send the link,
which we could deconstruct
to retrieve the cookie value.
Let’s try an example to
demonstrate how this works.
Our example application
sets a PHPSESSID cookie
when an admin user logs in.
The application uses the cookie
to determine if the user
has been authenticated.
If we modify our payload,
we can capture the victim’s cookie
to gain access to their
authenticated session.
Let’s re-establish our netcat
listener before we proceed.
We will use JavaScript to
read the value of the cookie
and append it to an image URL that
links back to our attack machine.
The browser will read the image tag and
send a GET request to our attack system
with the victim’s cookie as
part of the URL query string.
To implement our cookie stealer, we
need to modify our XSS payload as follows:
Once we submit this
payload to the application,
we just need to wait for an authenticated
user to access the application
so we can steal the
PHPSESSID cookie.
We can do this manually
or we can use a PowerShell script
on the Windows 10 lab machine
to simulate an admin user login.
This script creates an
instance of Internet Explorer,
navigates to the login page,
logs in,
and then exits.
This is enough to trigger our XSS payloads.
We can run the script
with ExecutionPolicy Bypass
to temporarily allow unsigned scripts
and use the File option to
specify the script to execute.
When our victim views the affected page,
their browser will make
a connection back to us
with the authenticated session ID value.
Now that we have the
authenticated session ID,
we need to set it in our browser.
We can use the
Cookie-Editor browser add-on
to easily set and manipulate cookies.
We can install this add-on
by clicking on Add to Firefox.
We’ll click Add to accept the permissions
dialog and install the add-on.
We now have a new cookie icon
on the Firefox toolbar
next to the FoxyProxy Icon.
Now that we have Cookie-Editor installed,
we’ll head back to the web application
and click on the Cookie-Editor icon
to open its dialog window.
Next, we’ll click the Add button,
paste in the stolen cookie values,
and click Add to save the new cookie.
Once the cookie value is added,
we can browse the administrative interface
without providing any credentials.
Notice that we don’t get
redirected to the login page
and we have “Delete” links
next to the feedback items.
This indicates that we have successfully
hijacked the
administrative user’s session.
Note that this attack is session-specific.
Once we steal the session,
we can masquerade as the victim
until they log out
or their session expires.